# Introduction
Implementatino of paper "Towards Interpreting Recurrent Neural Networks through Probabilistic Abstraction" in ASE 2020.

## Project structure

This project is organized as the following modules:

### target_models

Functions of this module are:

1. Define the architecture of neural networks. In this project we use two common architectures: LSTM and GRU
2. Train and save models. All the trained models are saved in the **data** folder. More details are introduce later.

### data

This module consists of three folders:

- **wordvec**:  a pretrained word2vec model is placed here. 
- **training_data**: this folder contains four datasets and their corresponding data processing code. The four datasets are listed as follows:
  - bp
  - tomita
  - imdb
  - mr
- **no_stopws**: this folder stores all the essential data of this project. They are:
  - trained_models: the  trained models. 
  - ori_trace:  the original execution trace of RNN(LSTM/GRU)
  - L1_trace: the result of leve1 abstraction
  - L2_results: the extracted PFAs
  - adv_text: adversarial texts generated by TEXTBUGGER over IMDB and MR datasets

### ori_trace_extraction

The function of this module is to extract the execution trace of LSTM/GRU for each input sequence. 

### level1_abstract

The function of this module is to convert the origianl trace to the symbolic trace by k-menas clustering

### level2_abstract

The function of this module is to extract a PFA using the symbolic traces derived from the target model

### experimnets

We organize all the code answering the research questions related to PFA.

The **effectiveness** folder contains the code of RQ1 and RQ2

The **appliaction** folder contains the code of RQ3. 

### baseline

This module contains the implementation of two baselines:

### utils

some helper functions are organized here.

## How to use?

### Prepare data

- word2vec model: 

  - Download word2vec model [GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin](https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/)  
  - place the model in **data/wordvec** folder

- unzip others compressed data into the **data** folder

- Other third-part artefacts 

  - refer to ***experiments/application/adv_detect/textbugger/universal-sentence-encoder/REDME***  and run ***experiments/application/adv_detect/textbugger/universal-sentence-encoder/download.py*** to download the corrpesponding artefact for adversarial texts. 
  - Download model checker [prism](https://prismmodelchecker.org/download.php)

- configure the following path in ***utils/constant.py***

  - PROJECT_ROOT, e.g.:

    `PROJECT_ROOT = "/home/username/project/learn_automata_rnn"`

  - SENTENCE_ENCODER, e.g.,:

    `SENTENCE_ENCODER = "/home/username/project/artefacts/universal-sentence-encoder"`

  - PRISM_SCRIPT,  e.g.,:

    `PRISM_SCRIPT = "/home/username/artefacts/prism/v-4.5/bin/prism"`

### Run

#### Extract PFA from scratch

1. Train target models.  One can use the file ***target_models/model_training.py*** to train a model by herseself.
2. Extract original trace. One can use the file ***ori_trace_extraction/do_ori_extract.py*** to extract the execution traces of the target model.
3. Use the file ***level1_abstract/do_L1_abstract.py*** to convert original traces to symbolic traces.  One can.
4. Use the file ***level2_abstract/do_L2_abstract.py*** to extract pfa according to the symbolic traces.

#### Test the effectiveness

Run the file ***experiments/effectiveness/pfa_predict.py*** to get the fidelity and accuracy of the learned pfa.

#### Application：Detection of Adversarial Text 

- use ***experiments/application/adv_detect/craft_adversaries.py*** to craft adversarial texts
- run ***experiments/application/adv_detect/ts_detect.py*** to detect the adversarial texts.









